# Publication workflow

## Creating a draft record

Drafts can be created at any point by any person, provided that they have an
ORCID and uses that ORCID to register in our system (ORCIDs are free and easy to
make, see [here](https://orcid.org/)).

When a record is in the draft state, only you, the creator can access the record
along side the editor and the administrator (see [roles](mbdb-roles.md) for
details).

There's no restrictions on how much you can edit your draft, and how long it
takes you to do so.

Blank drafts can be created by pressing the "Deposit" button.

![deposit_img](/static/img/deposit.svg "deposit button")

There is also the possibility to create a draft based on an existing draft. This
is done by navigating to the record that should be used as a template and
pressing the "Duplicate" button.

![duplicate_img](/static/img/duplicate.svg "duplicate button")

## Submitting the record

When you're satisfied with the record, you can be submit it for review. You will
not be able to submit before the draft passes validation, which checks that all
required fields are filled, and that all fields with content contains valid data
(*e.g.* no text in fields that only supports numbers).

Submission can be done by clicking the "Submit" from either the record view page
A) or from the input form B)

![submit_img](/static/img/submit.svg "submit")

Once the draft is submitted, you will not able edit it unless you cancel the
submission (see [Reviewing the record](#reviewing-the-record) below).

## Reviewing the record

While the draft is being reviewed you will not be able to make changes to it.
The alternative would be a nightmare for the reviewer. If you needed to make
a change you have to cancel the review by pressing the "Submit" button and then
press the "Cancel" button in the resulting window.

![cancel_review_img](/static/img/cancel_review.svg "cancel review")

The reviewer can then either chose to accept the draft, or reject it. In case
the record gets rejected, it returns to the draft state and you can edit your
draft and submit it again.

## Publishing the accepted record

When the draft has been accepted, it can be published as soon or late as you
want, there's no deadline for doing so. This can be done by navigating to the
record and press the "Publish draft" button.

![publish_draft_img](/static/img/publish.svg "publish draft")

## Deleting record during the workflow

The record can be deleted at any point during the publication work flow, note
the difference between unpublished and published records in terms of
[deletion](deletion.md).
