# Terms and conditions for users of MBDB

1. Only data directly generated by Molecular Biophysics methods are allowed to
   be deposited in the MBDB. Any data that does not fall within this category
   will be removed without warning and will result in a permanent ban of the
   user from making further deposition in the MBDB. In the case of illegal
   material, the relevant authorities will be notified.

2. A record is defined as the set of deposited files and deposited metadata.
   Although the record can be in various states, this does not change the
   which rules apply to them, with the exception that the License is not
   applied until the record is published.

3. Depositors agrees that MBDB can distribute the users' records under the
   [CC0 1.0 Universal license \
   ](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/?ref=chooser-v1), i.e.,
   the user agrees to place their work in the public domain.

4. Every person involved with the record is responsible for the record being
   correct (defined is not-fraudulent and containing non-allowed data), this
   extent to the MBDB members. The principal contact and depositor as well as
   MBDB members are obliged to keep their contact information updated in case
   doubt arises. Failure of correctness or contact information can in worst
   case lead to deletion of the record and permanent banning from making
   depositions. In the case of MBDB members termination of any rights they
   may have within the MBDB and permanent banning from participating in any
   form.

5. Every person involved in generation and deposition of the data must agree
   on being associated with the record and agree that the data can be placed
   in the public domain.

6. Users have the right to request deletion of their record. However, as the
   data is in the public domain, this in practice only means that MBDB will
   seize to distribute the data. MBDB has no rights too interfere with data
   downloaded prior to deletion, including redistribution. Furthermore, minimal
   metadata (the information required to obtain a DOI through DataCite) cannot
   be deleted. A note that the user requested deletion of the record will be
   present on the DOI landing page.

7. Users are only allowed to deposit work they have been directly involved
   in measuring or have been ask to deposit by the people who measured the data.

8. User are not allowed to create fraudulent records. Fraudulent records are
   defined as:

    1. Records where the metadata deliberately does not match the measured data.

    2. Records where the measured data itself does not represent data that has
       been measured (e.g. purely simulated data, manufactured data, data where
       individual datapoints were altered or removed without stating so).

    3. Records where people are claimed to have been involved in the data
       without being so.

9. Sanctions for fraudulent behaviour include:
    1. Forced alteration of record.
    2. Deletion of record with the note that it was deleted due to fraudulence.
    3. Permanent banning of one or all of the depositors from depositing within
       the MBDB.

    4. MBDB will attempt to notify all users of the data of it’s fraudulence,
       including Journal publishers.

    5. MBDB will notify the relevant legal authorities, including the employers
       of one or all of the depositors.

10. Sanctions can be only be placed on all depositors and records in the MBDB
    in cases where a record is deemed fraudulent. The following steps needs to
    be taken in order for a record to be deemed fraudulent.

    1. Suspicion of fraudulence should be reported to the Editor who is obliged
       to investigate and write a report of what speaks for and against the
       allegation.

    2. If the Editor finds evidence for the accusation, they must reach out to
       the principle contact, and other depositors if relevant, to allow them
       defend themselves against the claim. The editor is obliged to include
       this interaction in their report.

    3. In cases where the record owners failure to reply, the Editor must
       attempt to reach out by sending out at least three requests out with at
       least three weeks in between them.

    4. If the Editor still believes that the record is fraudulent at this
       point, they can submit a motion to the steering committee to delete
       the record, which include their report.

    5. If the Editor is part of the steering committee they will be excluded
       from voting as well as participating in the discussion except for
       clarification of details in the report.

11. MBDB are allowed to change the records by following the procedures
    set out by the steering committee.
